README.md, before:

Hey all, Daniel here. I'm looking for someone who has the time and motivation to maintain this repo.
I wanted to get back to it but I won't be able to find the time this year. The best, of course, would be
if it were someone who actually can do it as part of their work.
You can let me know via E-Mail. You'll find the address here: https://people.epfl.ch/daniel.probst/?lang=en

# SmilesDrawer 2.0

No server, no images, no templates, just a SMILES 😊

Current Version: **2.1.10**

<table style="width: 100%; table-layout: fixed">
    <tbody>
        <tr>
            <td><a href="https://smilesdrawer.rocks">Molecules</a></td>
            <td><a href="https://smilesdrawer.rocks">Reactions & Highlights</a></td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td><a href="https://smilesdrawer.rocks"><img src="https://github.com/reymond-group/smilesDrawer/raw/master/readme/main.png"></img></a></td>
            <td><a href="https://smilesdrawer.rocks"><img src="https://github.com/reymond-group/smilesDrawer/raw/master/readme/rxn_highlight.png"></img></a></td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td><a href="https://smilesdrawer.surge.sh/use.html">Learn & Copy-Paste</a></td>
            <td><a href="https://smilesdrawer.surge.sh/playground.html">Style & Customize</a></td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td><a href="https://smilesdrawer.surge.sh/use.html"><img src="https://github.com/reymond-group/smilesDrawer/raw/master/readme/learn.png"></img></a></td>
            <td><a href="https://smilesdrawer.surge.sh/playground.html"><img src="https://github.com/reymond-group/smilesDrawer/raw/master/readme/style.png"></img></a></td>
        </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>

### Examples in Specific Frameworks

<details>
    <summary>Svelte </summary>

```html
<!--file:Molecule.svlete-->
<!--Tested against v2.1.7 of smiles-drawer-->
<script>
    import { afterUpdate } from "svelte";
    import SmilesDrawer from "smiles-drawer";

    export let smiles = "";

    const SETTINGS = {
        width: 300,
        height: 200,
    };
    let drawer = new SmilesDrawer.SvgDrawer(SETTINGS);
    let svgElement;

    afterUpdate(() => {
        SmilesDrawer.parse(smiles, function (tree) {
            drawer.draw(tree, svgElement, "light");
        });
    });
</script>

<div>
    <svg bind:this={svgElement} data-smiles={smiles} />
</div>

<style>
    svg {
        width: 300px;
        height: 200px;
    }
</style>

<!--usage-->
<Molecule smiles="CCCO" />
```

</details>

### Please cite

If you use this code or application, please cite the original paper published by the Journal of Chemical Information and Modeling: [10.1021/acs.jcim.7b00425](http://dx.doi.org/10.1021/acs.jcim.7b00425)

## Legacy Documentation

As of now, there is full backwards compatibility.

### Examples

An example using the light theme can be found [here](http://doc.gdb.tools/smilesDrawer/sd/example/index_light.html), while one using the dark theme can be found [here](http://doc.gdb.tools/smilesDrawer/sd/example/index.html) . The colors of SmilesDrawer are completely configurable.

Examples showing molecules from different databases:

- [Drugbank](http://doc.gdb.tools/smilesDrawer/sd/test/browser.html?set=drugbank)
- [GDB-17](http://doc.gdb.tools/smilesDrawer/sd/test/browser.html?set=gdb17)
- [FDB-17](http://doc.gdb.tools/smilesDrawer/sd/test/browser.html?set=fdb)
- [SureChEMBL](http://doc.gdb.tools/smilesDrawer/sd/test/browser.html?set=schembl)
- [ChEMBL](http://doc.gdb.tools/smilesDrawer/sd/test/browser.html?set=chembl)

A very simple JSFiddle example can be found [here](https://jsfiddle.net/zjdtkL57/1/). This example shows the `SmilesDrawer.apply()` functionality which draws the structure for every `canvas` element with a `data-smiles` attribute. E.g. `<canvas data-smiles="C1CCCCC1"></canvas>`

### Experimental Features

If you experience problems with the drawing of complex ring systems (including very long bonds), please enable experimental features (see options).

### "Installation"

SmilesDrawer is available from the unpkg content delivery network:

```
https://unpkg.com/smiles-drawer@1.2.0/dist/smiles-drawer.min.js
```

You can easily get smiles-drawer using yarn:

```
yarn add smiles-drawer
```

or you can just download the files from here.

### Building Smiles Drawer

If you decide not to use the ready-to-go scripts in `dist`, you can (edit and) build the project by running:

```bash
npm install
gulp
```

### Testing

SmilesDrawer includes comprehensive regression testing to ensure changes don't break existing functionality.

#### Regression Testing

Run fail-early regression tests using the fast regression dataset:

```bash
npm run test:regression
```

Compare against a specific commit or branch:

```bash
npm run test:regression <commit/branch>
```

Run against all datasets (not just fastregression):

```bash
npm run test:regression -all
```

Or compare against a specific commit using all datasets:

```bash
npm run test:regression <commit/branch> -all
```

**Flags:**
- `-all` - Test all datasets instead of just fastregression

#### Visual Regression Testing

Create side-by-side comparisons of molecules that render differently:

```bash
npm run test:visual
```

Compare against a specific commit or branch:

```bash
npm run test:visual <commit/branch>
```

**Available flags:**
- `-all` - Test all datasets (default: fastregression only)
- `-failearly` - Stop at first difference (default: continue and collect all)
- `-novisual` - Skip SVG generation (default: generate visual comparisons)

**Examples:**

```bash
# Test all datasets with visual reports
npm run test:visual -all

# Fail early mode (stop at first difference)
npm run test:visual -failearly

# Quick check without visual output
npm run test:visual -novisual

# Combine flags
npm run test:visual <commit/branch> -all -failearly
```

Visual regression tests generate HTML reports with side-by-side SVG comparisons, making it easy to spot rendering changes.

### Getting Started

To get a simple input box which lets the user enter a SMILES and then display it in a canvas, the following minimal example is sufficient.
In order to have nice consistent font rendering you have to include the droid sans font from google fonts.

```html
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <meta http-equiv="x-ua-compatible" content="ie=edge" />
    <title>Smiles Drawer Example</title>
    <meta name="description" content="A minimal smiles drawer example." />
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1" />

    <link
      href="https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=Droid+Sans:400,700"
      rel="stylesheet"
    />
  </head>
  <body>
    <input id="example-input" name="example-input" />
    <canvas id="example-canvas" width="500" height="500"></canvas>

    <script src="https://unpkg.com/smiles-drawer@1.0.10/dist/smiles-drawer.min.js"></script>
    <script>
      let input = document.getElementById("example-input");
      let options = {};

      // Initialize the drawer to draw to canvas
      let smilesDrawer = new SmilesDrawer.Drawer(options);
      // Alternatively, initialize the SVG drawer:
      // let svgDrawer = new SmilesDrawer.SvgDrawer(options);

      input.addEventListener("input", function() {
        // Clean the input (remove unrecognized characters, such as spaces and tabs) and parse it
        SmilesDrawer.parse(input.value, function(tree) {
          // Draw to the canvas
          smilesDrawer.draw(tree, "example-canvas", "light", false);
          // Alternatively, draw to SVG:
          // svgDrawer.draw(tree, 'output-svg', 'dark', false);
        });
      });
    </script>
  </body>
</html>
```

See the example folder for a more complete example.

### Options

The options are supplied to the constructor as shown in the example above.

```javascript
let options = { ... };
let smilesDrawer = new SmilesDrawer(options);
```

The following options are available:

| Option                                                          | Identifier                  | Data Type                           | Default Value |
| --------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------- | ----------------------------------- | ------------- |
| Drawing width                                                   | width                       | number                              | 500           |
| Drawing height                                                  | height                      | number                              | 500           |
| Bond thickness                                                  | bondThickness               | number                              | 0.6           |
| Bond length                                                     | bondLength                  | number                              | 15            |
| Short bond length (e.g. double bonds) in percent of bond length | shortBondLength             | number                              | 0.85          |
| Bond spacing (e.g. space between double bonds)                  | bondSpacing                 | number                              | 0.18 \* 15    |
| Atom Visualization                                              | atomVisualization           | string ['default', 'balls', 'none'] | 'default'     |
| Large Font Size (in pt for elements)                            | fontSizeLarge               | number                              | 6             |
| Small Font Size (in pt for numbers)                             | fontSizeSmall               | number                              | 4             |
| Padding                                                         | padding                     | number                              | 20.0          |
| Use experimental features                                       | experimental                | boolean                             | false         |
| Show Terminal Carbons (CH3)                                     | terminalCarbons             | boolean                             | false         |
| Show explicit hydrogens                                         | explicitHydrogens           | boolean                             | false         |
| Overlap sensitivity                                             | overlapSensitivity          | number                              | 0.42          |
| # of overlap resolution iterations                              | overlapResolutionIterations | number                              | 1             |
| Draw concatenated terminals and pseudo elements                 | compactDrawing              | boolean                             | true          |
| Draw isometric SMILES if available                              | isometric                   | boolean                             | true          |
| Debug (draw debug information to canvas)                        | debug                       | boolean                             | false         |
| Color themes                                                    | themes                      | object                              | see below     |

The default options are defined as follows:

```javascript
{
    width: 500,
    height: 500,
    bondThickness: 0.6,
    bondLength: 15,
    shortBondLength: 0.85,
    bondSpacing: 0.18 * 15,
    atomVisualization: 'default',
    isomeric: true,
    debug: false,
    terminalCarbons: false,
    explicitHydrogens: false,
    overlapSensitivity: 0.42,
    overlapResolutionIterations: 1,
    compactDrawing: true,
    fontSizeLarge: 5,
    fontSizeSmall: 3,
    padding: 20.0,
    experimental: false,
    themes: {
        dark: {
            C: '#fff',
            O: '#e74c3c',
            N: '#3498db',
            F: '#27ae60',
            CL: '#16a085',
            BR: '#d35400',
            I: '#8e44ad',
            P: '#d35400',
            S: '#f1c40f',
            B: '#e67e22',
            SI: '#e67e22',
            H: '#fff',
            BACKGROUND: '#141414'
        },
        light: {
            C: '#222',
            O: '#e74c3c',
            N: '#3498db',
            F: '#27ae60',
            CL: '#16a085',
            BR: '#d35400',
            I: '#8e44ad',
            P: '#d35400',
            S: '#f1c40f',
            B: '#e67e22',
            SI: '#e67e22',
            H: '#222',
            BACKGROUND: '#fff'
        }
    }
};
```

### Usage

An instance of SmilesDrawer is able to draw to multiple targets. Initialize SmilesDrawer once for each set of options (you would initialize two different objects if you were to draw in two different sizes).

```javascript
let smilesDrawer = new SmilesDrawer.Drawer({ width: 250, height: 250 });
```

In order to depict a SMILES string it has to be parsed using SmilesDrawer's SMILES parser, which is encapsulated in the static function `SmilesDrawer.parse()` where the first argument is the SMILES string and the second argument a callback for a successful parsing. The third argument provides a way to handle errors using a callback.

```javascript
SmilesDrawer.parse('C1CCCCC1', function (tree) {
    smilesDrawer.draw(tree, 'output-canvas', 'light', false);
}, function (err) {
    console.log(err);
}
```

The function `smilesDrawer.draw()` requires two and accepts up to four arguments. The first argument is the parse tree returned by the parse function (through the callback), the second is the `id` of a HTML canvas element on which the structure will be drawn. The two optional arguments are whether to use the light or dark theme (defaults to `'light'`) and whether to only compute properties such as ring count, hac, etc. and not depict the structure (defaults to `false`).

### API

The SmilesDrawer object exposes methods that can be used for purposes other than drawing chemical structures.

| Method                  | Description                                                                       | Returns  |
| ----------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------- |
| `getMolecularFormula()` | Returns the molecular formula, eg. C22H30N6O4S, of the currently loaded molecule. | `String` |

### Bridged Rings

Bridged rings are positioned using the Kamada–Kawai algorithm. If there is a bridged ring in the molecule, explicitly defined aromatic rings are not drawn with a circle inside the ring, but with dashed gray lines where double bonds would be.

### Contributors

Thank you for contributing:
- SRI International's CSE group (For the excellent SVG support)
- [ohardy](https://github.com/ohardy)

Commit message:

feat: improve regression test output with JSON files
Changed visual regression test output to save JSON data to files
instead of printing to console, making large diffs manageable.

Changes:
- Renamed output directory: visual-regression-results -> regression-results
- Save JSON files alongside HTML: N.json contains {old, new} fields
- Fail-early mode now saves JSON to file before exiting
- -novisual mode still saves JSON (skips only SVG/HTML generation)
- Updated .gitignore to use new directory name
- Updated README with JSON output documentation

Benefits:
- JSON no longer clutters console output
- Easy programmatic comparison via JSON files
- Consistent numbered files: 1.html + 1.json, 2.html + 2.json, etc.
- All modes now produce structured output for analysis

README.md, after:

Hey all, Daniel here. I'm looking for someone who has the time and motivation to maintain this repo.
I wanted to get back to it but I won't be able to find the time this year. The best, of course, would be
if it were someone who actually can do it as part of their work.
You can let me know via E-Mail. You'll find the address here: https://people.epfl.ch/daniel.probst/?lang=en

# SmilesDrawer 2.0

No server, no images, no templates, just a SMILES 😊

Current Version: **2.1.10**

<table style="width: 100%; table-layout: fixed">
    <tbody>
        <tr>
            <td><a href="https://smilesdrawer.rocks">Molecules</a></td>
            <td><a href="https://smilesdrawer.rocks">Reactions & Highlights</a></td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td><a href="https://smilesdrawer.rocks"><img src="https://github.com/reymond-group/smilesDrawer/raw/master/readme/main.png"></img></a></td>
            <td><a href="https://smilesdrawer.rocks"><img src="https://github.com/reymond-group/smilesDrawer/raw/master/readme/rxn_highlight.png"></img></a></td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td><a href="https://smilesdrawer.surge.sh/use.html">Learn & Copy-Paste</a></td>
            <td><a href="https://smilesdrawer.surge.sh/playground.html">Style & Customize</a></td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td><a href="https://smilesdrawer.surge.sh/use.html"><img src="https://github.com/reymond-group/smilesDrawer/raw/master/readme/learn.png"></img></a></td>
            <td><a href="https://smilesdrawer.surge.sh/playground.html"><img src="https://github.com/reymond-group/smilesDrawer/raw/master/readme/style.png"></img></a></td>
        </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>

### Examples in Specific Frameworks

<details>
    <summary>Svelte </summary>

```html
<!--file:Molecule.svlete-->
<!--Tested against v2.1.7 of smiles-drawer-->
<script>
    import { afterUpdate } from "svelte";
    import SmilesDrawer from "smiles-drawer";

    export let smiles = "";

    const SETTINGS = {
        width: 300,
        height: 200,
    };
    let drawer = new SmilesDrawer.SvgDrawer(SETTINGS);
    let svgElement;

    afterUpdate(() => {
        SmilesDrawer.parse(smiles, function (tree) {
            drawer.draw(tree, svgElement, "light");
        });
    });
</script>

<div>
    <svg bind:this={svgElement} data-smiles={smiles} />
</div>

<style>
    svg {
        width: 300px;
        height: 200px;
    }
</style>

<!--usage-->
<Molecule smiles="CCCO" />
```

</details>

### Please cite

If you use this code or application, please cite the original paper published by the Journal of Chemical Information and Modeling: [10.1021/acs.jcim.7b00425](http://dx.doi.org/10.1021/acs.jcim.7b00425)

## Legacy Documentation

As of now, there is full backwards compatibility.

### Examples

An example using the light theme can be found [here](http://doc.gdb.tools/smilesDrawer/sd/example/index_light.html), while one using the dark theme can be found [here](http://doc.gdb.tools/smilesDrawer/sd/example/index.html) . The colors of SmilesDrawer are completely configurable.

Examples showing molecules from different databases:

- [Drugbank](http://doc.gdb.tools/smilesDrawer/sd/test/browser.html?set=drugbank)
- [GDB-17](http://doc.gdb.tools/smilesDrawer/sd/test/browser.html?set=gdb17)
- [FDB-17](http://doc.gdb.tools/smilesDrawer/sd/test/browser.html?set=fdb)
- [SureChEMBL](http://doc.gdb.tools/smilesDrawer/sd/test/browser.html?set=schembl)
- [ChEMBL](http://doc.gdb.tools/smilesDrawer/sd/test/browser.html?set=chembl)

A very simple JSFiddle example can be found [here](https://jsfiddle.net/zjdtkL57/1/). This example shows the `SmilesDrawer.apply()` functionality which draws the structure for every `canvas` element with a `data-smiles` attribute. E.g. `<canvas data-smiles="C1CCCCC1"></canvas>`

### Experimental Features

If you experience problems with the drawing of complex ring systems (including very long bonds), please enable experimental features (see options).

### "Installation"

SmilesDrawer is available from the unpkg content delivery network:

```
https://unpkg.com/smiles-drawer@1.2.0/dist/smiles-drawer.min.js
```

You can easily get smiles-drawer using yarn:

```
yarn add smiles-drawer
```

or you can just download the files from here.

### Building Smiles Drawer

If you decide not to use the ready-to-go scripts in `dist`, you can (edit and) build the project by running:

```bash
npm install
gulp
```

### Testing

SmilesDrawer includes comprehensive regression testing to ensure changes don't break existing functionality.

#### Regression Testing

Run fail-early regression tests using the fast regression dataset:

```bash
npm run test:regression
```

Compare against a specific commit or branch:

```bash
npm run test:regression <commit/branch>
```

Run against all datasets (not just fastregression):

```bash
npm run test:regression -all
```

Or compare against a specific commit using all datasets:

```bash
npm run test:regression <commit/branch> -all
```

**Flags:**
- `-all` - Test all datasets instead of just fastregression

#### Visual Regression Testing

Create side-by-side comparisons of molecules that render differently:

```bash
npm run test:visual
```

Compare against a specific commit or branch:

```bash
npm run test:visual <commit/branch>
```

**Available flags:**
- `-all` - Test all datasets (default: fastregression only)
- `-failearly` - Stop at first difference (default: continue and collect all)
- `-novisual` - Skip SVG generation (default: generate visual comparisons)

**Examples:**

```bash
# Test all datasets with visual reports
npm run test:visual -all

# Fail early mode (stop at first difference)
npm run test:visual -failearly

# Quick check without visual output
npm run test:visual -novisual

# Combine flags
npm run test:visual <commit/branch> -all -failearly
```

Visual regression tests generate reports in the `regression-results/` directory:
- **HTML files** (`N.html`) - Side-by-side SVG comparisons for visual inspection
- **JSON files** (`N.json`) - Structured data with `{old, new}` fields for programmatic comparison

This makes it easy to both visually spot rendering changes and programmatically analyze differences.

### Getting Started

To get a simple input box which lets the user enter a SMILES and then display it in a canvas, the following minimal example is sufficient.
In order to have nice consistent font rendering you have to include the droid sans font from google fonts.

```html
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <meta http-equiv="x-ua-compatible" content="ie=edge" />
    <title>Smiles Drawer Example</title>
    <meta name="description" content="A minimal smiles drawer example." />
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1" />

    <link
      href="https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=Droid+Sans:400,700"
      rel="stylesheet"
    />
  </head>
  <body>
    <input id="example-input" name="example-input" />
    <canvas id="example-canvas" width="500" height="500"></canvas>

    <script src="https://unpkg.com/smiles-drawer@1.0.10/dist/smiles-drawer.min.js"></script>
    <script>
      let input = document.getElementById("example-input");
      let options = {};

      // Initialize the drawer to draw to canvas
      let smilesDrawer = new SmilesDrawer.Drawer(options);
      // Alternatively, initialize the SVG drawer:
      // let svgDrawer = new SmilesDrawer.SvgDrawer(options);

      input.addEventListener("input", function() {
        // Clean the input (remove unrecognized characters, such as spaces and tabs) and parse it
        SmilesDrawer.parse(input.value, function(tree) {
          // Draw to the canvas
          smilesDrawer.draw(tree, "example-canvas", "light", false);
          // Alternatively, draw to SVG:
          // svgDrawer.draw(tree, 'output-svg', 'dark', false);
        });
      });
    </script>
  </body>
</html>
```

See the example folder for a more complete example.

### Options

The options are supplied to the constructor as shown in the example above.

```javascript
let options = { ... };
let smilesDrawer = new SmilesDrawer(options);
```

The following options are available:

| Option                                                          | Identifier                  | Data Type                           | Default Value |
| --------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------- | ----------------------------------- | ------------- |
| Drawing width                                                   | width                       | number                              | 500           |
| Drawing height                                                  | height                      | number                              | 500           |
| Bond thickness                                                  | bondThickness               | number                              | 0.6           |
| Bond length                                                     | bondLength                  | number                              | 15            |
| Short bond length (e.g. double bonds) in percent of bond length | shortBondLength             | number                              | 0.85          |
| Bond spacing (e.g. space between double bonds)                  | bondSpacing                 | number                              | 0.18 \* 15    |
| Atom Visualization                                              | atomVisualization           | string ['default', 'balls', 'none'] | 'default'     |
| Large Font Size (in pt for elements)                            | fontSizeLarge               | number                              | 6             |
| Small Font Size (in pt for numbers)                             | fontSizeSmall               | number                              | 4             |
| Padding                                                         | padding                     | number                              | 20.0          |
| Use experimental features                                       | experimental                | boolean                             | false         |
| Show Terminal Carbons (CH3)                                     | terminalCarbons             | boolean                             | false         |
| Show explicit hydrogens                                         | explicitHydrogens           | boolean                             | false         |
| Overlap sensitivity                                             | overlapSensitivity          | number                              | 0.42          |
| # of overlap resolution iterations                              | overlapResolutionIterations | number                              | 1             |
| Draw concatenated terminals and pseudo elements                 | compactDrawing              | boolean                             | true          |
| Draw isometric SMILES if available                              | isometric                   | boolean                             | true          |
| Debug (draw debug information to canvas)                        | debug                       | boolean                             | false         |
| Color themes                                                    | themes                      | object                              | see below     |

The default options are defined as follows:

```javascript
{
    width: 500,
    height: 500,
    bondThickness: 0.6,
    bondLength: 15,
    shortBondLength: 0.85,
    bondSpacing: 0.18 * 15,
    atomVisualization: 'default',
    isomeric: true,
    debug: false,
    terminalCarbons: false,
    explicitHydrogens: false,
    overlapSensitivity: 0.42,
    overlapResolutionIterations: 1,
    compactDrawing: true,
    fontSizeLarge: 5,
    fontSizeSmall: 3,
    padding: 20.0,
    experimental: false,
    themes: {
        dark: {
            C: '#fff',
            O: '#e74c3c',
            N: '#3498db',
            F: '#27ae60',
            CL: '#16a085',
            BR: '#d35400',
            I: '#8e44ad',
            P: '#d35400',
            S: '#f1c40f',
            B: '#e67e22',
            SI: '#e67e22',
            H: '#fff',
            BACKGROUND: '#141414'
        },
        light: {
            C: '#222',
            O: '#e74c3c',
            N: '#3498db',
            F: '#27ae60',
            CL: '#16a085',
            BR: '#d35400',
            I: '#8e44ad',
            P: '#d35400',
            S: '#f1c40f',
            B: '#e67e22',
            SI: '#e67e22',
            H: '#222',
            BACKGROUND: '#fff'
        }
    }
};
```

### Usage

An instance of SmilesDrawer is able to draw to multiple targets. Initialize SmilesDrawer once for each set of options (you would initialize two different objects if you were to draw in two different sizes).

```javascript
let smilesDrawer = new SmilesDrawer.Drawer({ width: 250, height: 250 });
```

In order to depict a SMILES string it has to be parsed using SmilesDrawer's SMILES parser, which is encapsulated in the static function `SmilesDrawer.parse()` where the first argument is the SMILES string and the second argument a callback for a successful parsing. The third argument provides a way to handle errors using a callback.

```javascript
SmilesDrawer.parse('C1CCCCC1', function (tree) {
    smilesDrawer.draw(tree, 'output-canvas', 'light', false);
}, function (err) {
    console.log(err);
}
```

The function `smilesDrawer.draw()` requires two and accepts up to four arguments. The first argument is the parse tree returned by the parse function (through the callback), the second is the `id` of a HTML canvas element on which the structure will be drawn. The two optional arguments are whether to use the light or dark theme (defaults to `'light'`) and whether to only compute properties such as ring count, hac, etc. and not depict the structure (defaults to `false`).

### API

The SmilesDrawer object exposes methods that can be used for purposes other than drawing chemical structures.

| Method                  | Description                                                                       | Returns  |
| ----------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------- |
| `getMolecularFormula()` | Returns the molecular formula, eg. C22H30N6O4S, of the currently loaded molecule. | `String` |

### Bridged Rings

Bridged rings are positioned using the Kamada–Kawai algorithm. If there is a bridged ring in the molecule, explicitly defined aromatic rings are not drawn with a circle inside the ring, but with dashed gray lines where double bonds would be.

### Contributors

Thank you for contributing:
- SRI International's CSE group (For the excellent SVG support)
- [ohardy](https://github.com/ohardy)
